# Reflection
The goal of the assignment was to predict survival on HCC Survival data using Logistic Regression and Survial Analysis. 

To achieve the goal, we had to explore what the data looks like, imputed it to fill in the missing data using SimpleImputer and IterativeImputer from ScikitLearn, and then created new datasets using Mean, Median, Most Frequent, and IterativeImputer. And then, logistic regression was used to predict survival using Statsmodel and SckitLearn, and measured the impact of using Lasso, Ridge, and ElasticNet Regularization. Finally, LifeLines library was used to perform the survival analysis on each dataset to see if the results were different.

The different regularization methods did impact when using SckitLearn, as we did see the different results. With the result from SkLearn, we choosed to go with the Lasso in Mode data for good rSquared of 0.81. We thought having negative values were the errors from Sklearn, but from the official documentation[Link](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.r2_score.html), it mentioned that the rSquared does not necessarily be negatives. To check if we did not make any mistake, we implemented Efron's R squared [Link](https://thestatsgeek.com/2014/02/08/r-squared-in-logistic-regression/), but we still got the similar results. We tried with the McFadden's adjusted R Squared method, which resulted in a better result, similar to the results of StatsModel's result without any negative values.

However, It seemed like regularization method did not make any impact when using StatsModels, as the results came out to be same. With the result from Statsmodel, we choose mode data with the best performance. Even though the accuracy was low, we primarily looked at the rSquared value as a primary when deciding the best performed method.

In the result, SckitLearn and Statsmodel(Uses McFadden’s pseudo-R-squared) is using different types of rSquared method, and they produce different results.

__Lifeline result:__

We picked Hemoglobin, Albumin and Iron for the analysis.

For all the imputed dataset, Hemoglobin, Albumin were not so significant since P value was greater than alpha of 0.05.

1. Mean Imputed data:
Logistic regression: The increase of Iron resulted in increase of class, basically the 8% increase in the chance of survival. The confidence interval was between 0.2% and 15%.

Survival analysis: The increase of 1 in Iron increased in survial of 1%. The confidence interval was between 1% and 2%.

2. Mode and median imputed data: 
We pretty much got same result as a mean imputed dataset.

3. Iterative imputed data: 
We got the result of even the iron not being so significant. 


All python requirements are stored in `requirements.txt`. Run the code below to install the requirements.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

# Reflection Questions - Justin
**What do I believe I did well on this assignment?**  
I did well on filling missing data and using all four imputers from SkLearn.

**What was the most challenging part of this assignment?**  
The most challenging part was creating a survival analysis in the end.

**What would have made this assignment a better experience?**  
If I had some knowledge of StatsModels or survival analysis, it would have been better.

**What do I need help with?**  
I would need help in plotting the regression line and other plots using lifelines.


# Reflection Questions - Daniel
**What do I believe I did well on this assignment?**  
I did well on saving results (`accuracy`, `precision`, `recall`, `f1`, `rSquared`, and `AUC`) from each model run. This is presented in a nicely formatted table at the end of `Logistic_Regression` notebook.  

**What was the most challenging part of this assignment?**  
This, for me, was implementing Survival Regression. This was particularly hard because I was expecting a variable that measures time. Some $R^2$'s were negative or very low for some models generated by `SkLearn`. Upon further research, I found that this is a known issue. Typically, we would expect $R^2$ and adjusted $R^2$ between 0 and 1.

**What would have made this assignment a better experience?**  
`Statsmodel` being able to have Lasso, Ridge, and ElasticNet Regularization working properly.

**What do I need help with?**   
Deeper dive into Survival Analysis as a whole and also the implementation with `lifelines`.

# Reflection Questions - Ryan
**What do I believe I did well on this assignment?**  
I did well on the organizing and cleaning the data.

**What was the most challenging part of this assignment?**  
Pretty much everything about this assignment was challenging for me. As we went through and discussed how logistic regression and survival analysis should be done, I got a much better understanding of the subject. However, I still have a long way to go.

**What would have made this assignment a better experience?**  
If I had better background knowledge on this methods, it would've been a better experience. I had 

**What do I need help with?**  
I need to have more basic understand of statistics to interpret the results.

## License

The license to be used is [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)